# Examples of Successful Companies and the Problems That Started Them

### ***[Keynote](https://www.dropbox.com/s/gjpkdqqs2iej0dm/01%20-%20Keynote%20-%20Solve%20a%20Problem%20You%20Care%20About.key?dl=0 "Solve a Problem You Care About - Keynote") | [PowerPoint](https://www.dropbox.com/s/sgder70mginqww3/01%20-%20PowerPoint%20-%20Solve%20a%20Problem%20You%20Care%20About.pptx?dl=0 "Solve a Problem You Care About - PowePoint")***

Ideas for great products don't just drop out of the sky. There aren't a few people who are predestined to come up with brilliant solutions that turn into massive companies. But there are people who have learned to identify the problems in their life as opportunities. Opportunities to make their lives better, and the lives of all the other people around them facing a similar problem.

How many of you have heard of Airbnb? What about Uber?

These companies, that are now used by millions of people around the world, and make millions of dollars every day, started because their founders identified problems they faced and saw opportunities.

These companies didn't start off as the juggernauts that they are now. It took identifying a problem that the founders faced personally, trying to solve that problem manually, building and iterating a better solution to the problem, and having people validate their solution by getting them to pay for it.

Here are the origin stories of AirBnb, Uber, and Basecamp. Three runaway successes, all solving very different problems.

### Airbnb ([The Growth Story You Didn't Know](https://growthhackers.com/growth-studies/airbnb "Airbnb: The Growth Story You Didn't Know"))
  In 2007, designers Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia couldn’t afford the rent on their San Francisco apartment. To make ends meet, they decided to turn their loft into a lodging space, but, as Gebbia explains, “We didn’t want to post on Craigslist because we felt it was too impersonal. Our entrepreneur instinct said ‘build your own site.’ So we did.” There was a design conference coming to town and hotel space was limited, so they set up a simple website with pictures of their their loft-turned-lodging space—complete with three air mattresses on the floor and the promise of a home-cooked breakfast in the morning. This site got them their first three renters, each one paying $80, and after that first weekend they began receiving emails from people around the world asking when the site would be available for destinations like Buenos Aires, London, and Japan.
### Uber ([Uber Startup Timeline](http://uberestimate.com/timeline/ "How Uber Started"))
  The story of Uber takes us back to 2008 when the co-founders then, still friends and not aware they’ll be at the head of one of the most successful startups up to date, were attending LeWeb conference in Paris. Travis Kalanick and Garrett Camp, like old pals, were complaining about the many crappy things we all have to deal with in life, including finding a cab when we’re packed with luggage under the rain and no taxi seems to pass by. It seemed like The Eiffel Tower or Paris’ finest restaurants weren't enough to distract them from a brilliant idea trapped under the grey clouds, because next thing you know, these two “uber” kids were already brainstorming, thinking about ways to solve this global issue of finding cars at the right place, on the right time.
### Basecamp ([The Story of Basecamp](https://basecamp.com/about/story "The Story of Basecamp"))
  It all started back in 2003. Back then we were a web design firm. Companies hired us to re-design and simplify their web site. Business was great and we were busy. But we were disorganized. With so many concurrent projects, things began to slip through the cracks. Projects dragged on too long. We dropped the ball on key deliverables. We had some major miscommunication (“Wait, who said that? We did? When? Where?”). Back then, we relied on email for everything. Email’s great for many things. But it’s not great for long-running projects. Things get lost, people get left out of conversations, there’s nowhere to go to see what’s left to do. Know what I mean? So we started looking for a project management tool. We needed something to help us communicate ideas, organize the work to be done, and present work to stakeholders. Simple as that. We tried a few tools, but they were complicated and too hard to use. So we slowly slipped back to using our old standby - email. Our problems continued. Frustrated, we decided to build our own simple project management app. A few months later we had something ready. We started using this tool with our existing clients. Immediately projects ran better! We regained the sense of order and calmness we’d been craving. And clients noticed - they really appreciated the improved communication and organization. Then our clients started asking us what software we were using to run these projects. Turns out they wanted to use it for their own in-house projects! Hey, maybe we’ve got a product here! So we polished it up, priced it fairly, and put it on the market. On February 5th, 2004, Basecamp was born.

Start looking at the problems in the world around you as opportunities and you'll already be closer to creating the next great solution.
